# Project Proposal

**Title:** Exploring international health indicators and social investment at the country level. 

For my term project, I am interested in understanding the relationship between health and social expenditure at the national level. In the Sustainable Development Goals era, the rol of long-term investments in population health has been highlighted in an effort to move away from inefficient and unsustainable spending. Furthermore, incrased attention is being paid to the interconnected and structural nature of the social determinants of health: education, housing, and employment, among others, shape the health outcomes of an individual throughout their lifetime. With this in mind, I am interested in exploring how national expenditure on education, health and social protection relates to population-level improvement of these same indicators. The hypothesis that I am testing, thus, is whether countries that report increased spending on social services also show overall improvements in selected development indicators.

The importance of this issue lies in that evaluating the results of social investments on the health of populations as a whole will furhter build the body of evidence recessary to advance inclusive policies everywhere. Policy changes, in turn, offer the possibility to sustain these same investments over time, guaranteeing long-term advancement towards equity and development. I am personally invested in this question because I believe it is imperative to use an evidence-based approach to advance population health. In a funding-limited environment, and evidence-based approach will ensure that the policies or interventions championed are responsible, sustainable, and equitable. These are values that are central to me both as a development professional but also as a global citizen.

At the moment, the scope of my project is global given that I want to compare spenditure and health outcomes between countries. The data sources that I plan to use are:
*   For **health and development outcomes**: [USAID's Spatial Data Repository](http://spatialdata.dhsprogram.com/data/#/common/download) offers a summary of DHS indicators and U.S. Census Bureau population estimates and projections in GIS format. The repository includes data from 87 countries on 25 indicators which include maternal health, child health, vaccination uptake, contraceptive use , and infectious disease. 
*   For **spenditure on social services**: The [United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals indicators database](https://unstats.un.org/sdgs/indicators/database/) gives access to global data compiled through the UN System. I will focus on Goal 1, Target 1.a.2: Proportion of total government spending on essential services (education, health and social protection). The data available for this indicators contains records for 181 countries between 2000 and 2019. There are several countries for which these data is only available for selected years, which will limit the scope of my analysis.
  *   An **alternative data source** is the [WHO's Health Statistics site](https://apps.who.int/gho/data/node.sdg.1-a-data?lang=en) where a compilation of data relevant to the Sustainable Development Goals is available. The link above is for a table of [national domestic general government health expenditure as a percentage of general government expenditure](https://www.who.int/data/gho/indicator-metadata-registry/imr-details/4956). The potential advantage of focusing on this dataset instead of the social spenditure data is that it would be a more focused analysis that can be matched with health indicators only, instead of health and development outcomes combined.

The timeframe of my analysis will depend on the completeness of my data. I aim to iclude all 88 countries for which health indicators data is available. Ideally, I would like to produce a in interactive visualization where the user can see changes in spenditure over time vis a vis a selected health indicator. Additionally, I aim to produce summary tables that present more detailed information about these changes over time (percentage change, change as a ratio of national expenditure, and changes in health status over time). If successful, I hope to create several visualzations that offer a nuance perspective on social policies and its potential outcomes. This would also serve as a starting point for more detailed analyses that dissaggregate policies implemented by type and scope in order to identify the most efficacious among them.
